README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">Your Best 11</h1>

[Link to Project Page]()

This is my submission for MS2 in the Code Institute Full Stack Developer diploma. This website is for a football dream team 11, allowing the user to read up about legends of the game before submitting a list of players, selected via dropdown, through emailJS. This website was built with using the 'mobile first' principle and is fully responsive across all devices.

<h2 align="center"><img src="https://i.imgur.com/8IRxlLW.jpg"></h2>
<h2 align="center"><img src="https://i.imgur.com/aEItrxf.jpg"></h2>
<h2 align="center"><img src="https://i.imgur.com/gRE0YeA.jpg"></h2>

## User Experience (UX)

-   ### User stories

    -   #### Visitor Goals

        1. As a visitor, I want to understand the purpose of this site, background of the company and the range/type of products available.
        2. As a visitor, I want to be able to explore the site easily using clearly identified links whilst always be able to quickly return to the homepage.
        3. As a visitor, I want to be able to view testimonials from previous customers to determine the quality of the product being advertised.
        4. As a visitor, I want to view previous work by the company to get a visual representation of their work.
        5. As a visitor, I want to be able to view the company's online profile on social media platforms to view their previous work.

    - #### Customer Goals

        1. As a customer, I want to be able to complete the same goals as a Visitor but have the option to contact the company to request their services via an online form.

    -   #### Owner Goals

        1. As the site owner, I want to be able to inform customers of the background of the business while informing them of services available.
        2. As the site owner, I want to be able to advertise my products in an online gallery for customers to view products available.
        3. As the site owner, I want customers to be able to submit their name, email address and type of product category they would like with the added option of a text area to male bespoke requests.

    -   ### Design
        #### Colour Scheme and Site Theme
        -   The site was designed using contrasting blacks and whites to give the appearance of a floodlit football stadium.
        #### Typography
        -   The Ubuntu, Anton and PT Sans fonts were imported from Google Fonts for use throughout the site with sans-serif used as a fallback font. Ubuntu was chosen for it's style as it was in keeping with the design and feel of the site. Anton was used in the form in the site logo to stand out with a bolder style.
        #### Imagery
        -   The various images built into the site have been chosed and styled to grab the attention of the user while still remaining subtle enough to provide a good UX.

-   ### Wireframes

    -   Wireframes in paper format due to local issue with Balsamiq

    -   Home Page Wireframe - [View](https://i.imgur.com/pMkv3Ct.jpg)

    -   Cakes Page Wireframe - [View](https://i.imgur.com/CkHb8hG.jpg)

    -   Contact Page Wireframe - [View](https://i.imgur.com/fCay2Sz.jpg)


## Features

-   Site contains several active links designed to allow the user to easily navigate through the site. 
-   All images in the 'Cakes' page are styled in thumbnail style with a border showing when hover is active. All images are wrapped in an anchor tag which will open the image in a new tab to allow the user to view an enlarged image.
-   Site was built with using the 'mobile first' principle and is fully responsive across all devices.

## Languages Used

-   [HTML5](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML5)
-   [CSS3](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cascading_Style_Sheets)

### Frameworks, Libraries & Programs Used

1. [Bootstrap 5.0.0:](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.0/getting-started/introduction/)
    - Bootstrap was used to assist with the responsiveness and styling of the website.
1. [Google Fonts:](https://fonts.google.com/)
    - Google fonts were used to import the 'Titillium Web' font into the style.css file which is used on all pages throughout the project.
1. [Font Awesome:](https://fontawesome.com/)
    - Font Awesome was used on all pages throughout the website to add icons for aesthetic and UX purposes.
1. [Git](https://git-scm.com/)
    - Git was used for version control by utilizing the Gitpod terminal to commit to Git and Push to GitHub.
1. [GitHub:](https://github.com/)
    - GitHub is used to store the projects code after being pushed from Git.

## Testing

The W3C Markup Validator and W3C CSS Validator Services were used to validate every page of the project to ensure there were no syntax errors in the project.

-   HTML: All pages successfully tested using W3C HTML Validator with no errors
-   CSS: All pages successfully tested using W3C CSS Validator with no errors

### Testing User Stories from User Experience (UX) Section

-   #### Visitor Goals

    -   1. As a visitor, I want to understand the purpose of this site and the background of the company.

        -   The site instantly lets you know what the product is due to the imagery provided in both the header and main 'About Us' section.
        -   The 'About Us' section informs the user of the background of the company and a clear desrption of the services provided.

        2. As a visitor, I want to be able to explore the site easily using clearly identified links whilst always be able to quickly return to the homepage.

        -   The site contains well laid out links in the navigation bar and the header logo is also a clickable link which returns the user to the 'Home' page regardless of what page they are on.
        -   The 'About Us' section has links built into the text element which direct the user to the pages being suggested.

        3. As a visitor, I want to be able to view testimonials from previous customers to determine the quality of the product being advertised.

        -   Below the 'About Us' section on the Home page is a section containing testimonials from previous customers.

        4. As a visitor, I want to view previous work by the company to get a visual representation of their work.

        -   The 'Cakes' page contains several images of products available to the customers.
        -   All images in the 'Cakes' page are styled in thumbnail style with a border showing when hover is active. All images are wrapped in an anchor tag which will open the image in a new tab to allow the user to view an enlarged image.

        5. As a visitor, I want to be able to view the company's online profile on social media platforms to view their previous work.

        -   In the footer section, available on all pages, are links to social media platforms for the customer to select. Links open in new tabs.

    - #### Customer Goals

        1. As a customer, I want to be able to complete the same goals as a Visitor but have the option to contact the company to request their services via an online form.

        -   The 'Contact' page contains a form which allows the customer to fill out their details, select a category in the form of a radio button and input text to inform the site owner of any requirements and requests.

    -   #### Owner Goals

        1. As the site owner, I want to be able to inform customers of the background of the business while informing them of services available.

        -   The 'About Us' section informs the user of the background of the company and a clear desrption of the services provided.

        2. As the site owner, I want to be able to advertise my products in an online gallery for customers to view products available.

        -   The 'Cakes' page allows the owner to show images of products available to the customer.

        3. As the site owner, I want customers to be able to submit their name, email address and type of product category they would like with the added option of a text area to male bespoke requests.

        -   The 'Contact' page contains a form which allows the customer to fill out their details, select a category in the form of a radio button and input text to inform the site owner of any requirements and requests.


### Further Testing

-   The website was tested on Google Chrome, Microsoft Edge, Firefox, Safari (mobile) and Samsung Internet (mobile).
-   Testing was performed on a range of devices (laptop, tablet, phone) to verify succeful deployment.
-   Testing completed by family members to review site and notify of any bugs/improvements to be made.

#### Testing Specifics

1. All navigation links across all 3 pages were tested and found to be working. 
2. Any anchor links tested to ensure they open in new tab - successful.
3. Responsive testing done using Chrome Developer tools. Site shown to be working correctly.
4. User testing done by family. Grammatical errors and improvements completed.
5. User stories put to test using family members. Answers satisfactory.
6. Form on Contact page completed and Code Institute success message received.  

### Bugs

#### Fixed Bugs

1. Installing Bootstrap 5.0.0 issues
    - After installing Bootstrap 5.0.0. any anchor tags inherited a text-decoration border. All anchor tags containing text had to be targeted and the text-decroation set to none.
2. Input Form on Contact Page
    - The relative positioning of the Input form as causing responsive design issues so code adjusted to position table as a min-width with all round equal padding.
    - The text area col value was causing issues when moving to smaller screens. I had to override the textarea column value with a max-width value in the CSS file to make the textarea responsive
3. Footer Social Media links
    - I could not get these to behave in the Grid system as the 4th link would overflow onto the line below. I removed the letter spacing from the text which solved this issue.

4. X-axis Overflow on all pages
    - There was a horizontal overflow on all pages at first release. Issue corrected by switching the x-overflow to hidden.


#### Known Bugs

1. Firefox Desktop and Mobile Browser
    - The font family and weight seem to fall over on Firefox desktop and mobile.

## Deployment

### GitHub Pages

The project was deployed to GitHub Pages using the following steps...

1. Log in to GitHub and locate the [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/)
2. At the top of the Repository (not top of page), locate the "Settings" Button on the menu.
3. In the side bar,click on the Pages nav button.
4. Under "Source", click the dropdown called "None" and select "Master" and ensure folder is set to "Root"
5. Click Save and new page will open.
6. The published site is shown in the blue text bar [link](https://dmallon1983.github.io/MS1-Project/) in the "GitHub Pages" section.

### Forking the GitHub Repository

By forking the GitHub Repository we make a copy of the original repository on our GitHub account to view and/or make changes without affecting the original repository by using the following steps...

1. Log in to GitHub and locate the [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/)
2. At the top of the Repository (not top of page) just above the "Settings" Button on the menu, locate the "Fork" Button.
3. You should now have a copy of the original repository in your GitHub account.

### Making a Local Clone

1. Log in to GitHub and locate the [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/)
2. Under the repository name, click "Clone or download".
3. To clone the repository using HTTPS, under "Clone with HTTPS", copy the link.
4. Open Git Bash
5. Change the current working directory to the location where you want the cloned directory to be made.
6. Type `git clone`, and then paste the URL you copied in Step 3.

```
$ git clone https://github.com/YOUR-USERNAME/YOUR-REPOSITORY
```

7. Press Enter. Your local clone will be created.

```
$ git clone https://github.com/YOUR-USERNAME/YOUR-REPOSITORY
> Cloning into `CI-Clone`...
> remote: Counting objects: 10, done.
> remote: Compressing objects: 100% (8/8), done.
> remove: Total 10 (delta 1), reused 10 (delta 1)
> Unpacking objects: 100% (10/10), done.
```

Click [Here](https://help.github.com/en/github/creating-cloning-and-archiving-repositories/cloning-a-repository#cloning-a-repository-to-github-desktop) to retrieve pictures for some of the buttons and more detailed explanations of the above process.

## Credits

### Code

-   [Bootstrap 5.0.0:](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.0/getting-started/introduction/): Bootstrap Library used throughout the project. Bootstraps built in grid system used for layout purposes.

-   Code snippets and methods used from Code Institutes Full Stack Web Developer course material

### Content

-   Majority of content written by developer with external sources credited in comments on files.

-   README.md file created by formatting Code Institute example and ammending and expanding to suit project

-   Forking and cloning process taken from this example as not covered to date in the course.

### Media

-   Site header image taken from [Shutterstock](https://www.shutterstock.com/)
-   'Home' page background image taken from [Pexels](https://www.pexels.com/)
-   Images in 'Cakes' page gallery provided by Celaine Mallon
-   Embedded Youtube video in 'Cakes' page property of Youtube user Trebonis

### Acknowledgements

-   Code Institute for the fantastic course material and media

-   Slack community for support throughout the whole project.

Commit message:

styling of legends.html updated to cetralise text. READme.md updated

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">Your Best 11</h1>

[Link to Project Page]()

This is my submission for MS2 in the Code Institute Full Stack Developer diploma. This website is for a football dream team 11, allowing the user to read up about legends of the game before submitting a list of players, selected via dropdown, through emailJS. This website was built with using the 'mobile first' principle and is fully responsive across all devices.

<h2 align="center"><img src="https://i.imgur.com/8IRxlLW.jpg"></h2>
<h2 align="center"><img src="https://i.imgur.com/aEItrxf.jpg"></h2>
<h2 align="center"><img src="https://i.imgur.com/gRE0YeA.jpg"></h2>

## User Experience (UX)

-   ### User stories

    -   #### Visitor Goals

        1. As a visitor, I want to understand the purpose of this site and site functionality.
        2. As a visitor, I want to be able to explore the site easily using clearly identified links whilst always be able to quickly return to the homepage.
        3. As a visitor, I want to be receive feedback from interaction with the site.
        4. As a visitor, I want to be able to view the company's online profile on social media platforms to view their previous work.

    -   #### Owner Goals

        1. As the site owner, I want to provide users with a good UX which will allow them to suggest the site to other users.
        2. As the site owner, I want to be able to advertise my products in an online gallery for customers to view products available.
        3. As the site owner, I want customers to be able to submit their selections and supply them feedback on succesful submissions.

    -   ### Design
        #### Colour Scheme and Site Theme
        -   The site was designed using contrasting blacks and whites to give the appearance of a floodlit football stadium.
        #### Typography
        -   The Ubuntu, Anton and PT Sans fonts were imported from Google Fonts for use throughout the site with sans-serif used as a fallback font. Ubuntu was chosen for it's style as it was in keeping with the design and feel of the site. Anton was used in the form in the site logo to stand out with a bolder style.
        #### Imagery
        -   The various images built into the site have been chosed and styled to grab the attention of the user while still remaining subtle enough to provide a good UX.

-   ### Wireframes

    -   Wireframes in paper format due to local issue with Balsamiq

    -   Home Page Wireframe - [View](https://i.imgur.com/pMkv3Ct.jpg)

    -   Cakes Page Wireframe - [View](https://i.imgur.com/CkHb8hG.jpg)

    -   Contact Page Wireframe - [View](https://i.imgur.com/fCay2Sz.jpg)


## Features

-   Site contains several active links designed to allow the user to easily navigate through the site. 
-   All images in the 'Cakes' page are styled in thumbnail style with a border showing when hover is active. All images are wrapped in an anchor tag which will open the image in a new tab to allow the user to view an enlarged image.
-   Site was built with using the 'mobile first' principle and is fully responsive across all devices.

## Languages Used

-   [HTML5](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML5)
-   [CSS3](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cascading_Style_Sheets)
-   [JS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JavaScript)

### Frameworks, Libraries & Programs Used

1. [Bootstrap 5.0.0:](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.0/getting-started/introduction/)
    - Bootstrap was used to assist with the responsiveness and styling of the website.
1. [Google Fonts:](https://fonts.google.com/)
    - Google fonts were used to import the 'Titillium Web' font into the style.css file which is used on all pages throughout the project.
1. [Font Awesome:](https://fontawesome.com/)
    - Font Awesome was used on all pages throughout the website to add icons for aesthetic and UX purposes.
1. [Git](https://git-scm.com/)
    - Git was used for version control by utilizing the Gitpod terminal to commit to Git and Push to GitHub.
1. [GitHub:](https://github.com/)
    - GitHub is used to store the projects code after being pushed from Git.
1. [JQuery:]

## Testing

The W3C Markup Validator and W3C CSS Validator Services were used to validate every page of the project to ensure there were no syntax errors in the project.

-   HTML: All pages successfully tested using W3C HTML Validator with no errors
-   CSS: All pages successfully tested using W3C CSS Validator with no errors

### Testing User Stories from User Experience (UX) Section

-   #### Visitor Goals

    -   1. As a visitor, I want to understand the purpose of this site and the background of the company.

        -   The site instantly lets you know what the product is due to the imagery provided in both the header and main 'About Us' section.
        -   The 'About Us' section informs the user of the background of the company and a clear desrption of the services provided.

        2. As a visitor, I want to be able to explore the site easily using clearly identified links whilst always be able to quickly return to the homepage.

        -   The site contains well laid out links in the navigation bar and the header logo is also a clickable link which returns the user to the 'Home' page regardless of what page they are on.
        -   The 'About Us' section has links built into the text element which direct the user to the pages being suggested.

        3. As a visitor, I want to be able to view testimonials from previous customers to determine the quality of the product being advertised.

        -   Below the 'About Us' section on the Home page is a section containing testimonials from previous customers.

        4. As a visitor, I want to view previous work by the company to get a visual representation of their work.

        -   The 'Cakes' page contains several images of products available to the customers.
        -   All images in the 'Cakes' page are styled in thumbnail style with a border showing when hover is active. All images are wrapped in an anchor tag which will open the image in a new tab to allow the user to view an enlarged image.

        5. As a visitor, I want to be able to view the company's online profile on social media platforms to view their previous work.

        -   In the footer section, available on all pages, are links to social media platforms for the customer to select. Links open in new tabs.

    - #### Customer Goals

        1. As a customer, I want to be able to complete the same goals as a Visitor but have the option to contact the company to request their services via an online form.

        -   The 'Contact' page contains a form which allows the customer to fill out their details, select a category in the form of a radio button and input text to inform the site owner of any requirements and requests.

    -   #### Owner Goals

        1. As the site owner, I want to be able to inform customers of the background of the business while informing them of services available.

        -   The 'About Us' section informs the user of the background of the company and a clear desrption of the services provided.

        2. As the site owner, I want to be able to advertise my products in an online gallery for customers to view products available.

        -   The 'Cakes' page allows the owner to show images of products available to the customer.

        3. As the site owner, I want customers to be able to submit their name, email address and type of product category they would like with the added option of a text area to male bespoke requests.

        -   The 'Contact' page contains a form which allows the customer to fill out their details, select a category in the form of a radio button and input text to inform the site owner of any requirements and requests.


### Further Testing

-   The website was tested on Google Chrome, Microsoft Edge, Firefox, Safari (mobile) and Samsung Internet (mobile).
-   Testing was performed on a range of devices (laptop, tablet, phone) to verify succeful deployment.
-   Testing completed by family members to review site and notify of any bugs/improvements to be made.

#### Testing Specifics

1. All navigation links across all 3 pages were tested and found to be working. 
2. Any anchor links tested to ensure they open in new tab - successful.
3. Responsive testing done using Chrome Developer tools. Site shown to be working correctly.
4. User testing done by family. Grammatical errors and improvements completed.
5. User stories put to test using family members. Answers satisfactory.
6. Form on Contact page completed and Code Institute success message received.  

### Bugs

#### Fixed Bugs

1. Installing Bootstrap 5.0.0 issues
    - After installing Bootstrap 5.0.0. any anchor tags inherited a text-decoration border. All anchor tags containing text had to be targeted and the text-decroation set to none.
2. Input Form on Contact Page
    - The relative positioning of the Input form as causing responsive design issues so code adjusted to position table as a min-width with all round equal padding.
    - The text area col value was causing issues when moving to smaller screens. I had to override the textarea column value with a max-width value in the CSS file to make the textarea responsive
3. Footer Social Media links
    - I could not get these to behave in the Grid system as the 4th link would overflow onto the line below. I removed the letter spacing from the text which solved this issue.

4. X-axis Overflow on all pages
    - There was a horizontal overflow on all pages at first release. Issue corrected by switching the x-overflow to hidden.


#### Known Bugs

1. Firefox Desktop and Mobile Browser
    - The font family and weight seem to fall over on Firefox desktop and mobile.

## Deployment

### GitHub Pages

The project was deployed to GitHub Pages using the following steps...

1. Log in to GitHub and locate the [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/)
2. At the top of the Repository (not top of page), locate the "Settings" Button on the menu.
3. In the side bar,click on the Pages nav button.
4. Under "Source", click the dropdown called "None" and select "Master" and ensure folder is set to "Root"
5. Click Save and new page will open.
6. The published site is shown in the blue text bar [link](https://dmallon1983.github.io/MS1-Project/) in the "GitHub Pages" section.

### Forking the GitHub Repository

By forking the GitHub Repository we make a copy of the original repository on our GitHub account to view and/or make changes without affecting the original repository by using the following steps...

1. Log in to GitHub and locate the [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/)
2. At the top of the Repository (not top of page) just above the "Settings" Button on the menu, locate the "Fork" Button.
3. You should now have a copy of the original repository in your GitHub account.

### Making a Local Clone

1. Log in to GitHub and locate the [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/)
2. Under the repository name, click "Clone or download".
3. To clone the repository using HTTPS, under "Clone with HTTPS", copy the link.
4. Open Git Bash
5. Change the current working directory to the location where you want the cloned directory to be made.
6. Type `git clone`, and then paste the URL you copied in Step 3.

```
$ git clone https://github.com/YOUR-USERNAME/YOUR-REPOSITORY
```

7. Press Enter. Your local clone will be created.

```
$ git clone https://github.com/YOUR-USERNAME/YOUR-REPOSITORY
> Cloning into `CI-Clone`...
> remote: Counting objects: 10, done.
> remote: Compressing objects: 100% (8/8), done.
> remove: Total 10 (delta 1), reused 10 (delta 1)
> Unpacking objects: 100% (10/10), done.
```

Click [Here](https://help.github.com/en/github/creating-cloning-and-archiving-repositories/cloning-a-repository#cloning-a-repository-to-github-desktop) to retrieve pictures for some of the buttons and more detailed explanations of the above process.

## Credits

### Code

-   [Bootstrap 5.0.0:](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.0/getting-started/introduction/): Bootstrap Library used throughout the project. Bootstraps built in grid system used for layout purposes.

-   Code snippets and methods used from Code Institutes Full Stack Web Developer course material

### Content

-   Majority of content written by developer with external sources credited in comments on files.

-   README.md file created by formatting Code Institute example and ammending and expanding to suit project

-   Forking and cloning process taken from this example as not covered to date in the course.

### Media

-   Site header image taken from [Shutterstock](https://www.shutterstock.com/)
-   'Home' page background image taken from [Pexels](https://www.pexels.com/)
-   Images in 'Cakes' page gallery provided by Celaine Mallon
-   Embedded Youtube video in 'Cakes' page property of Youtube user Trebonis

### Acknowledgements

-   Code Institute for the fantastic course material and media

-   Slack community for support throughout the whole project.
